---
title: "Judges"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: binoculars
---
Team leaders will present working prototypes to judges and audience of tech and public safety experts at the International Disaster Conference **Wednesday, Feb. 11, at 4 PM**.

##Judging Criteria

- Ease of use and functionality
- Easily deployable in the field (depending on application)
- Platform and technology agnostic
- Access to information and open data
- Appropriateness of solution to targeted demographic 

##Awards
**Hootsuite Labs**
Depending on the nature of the winning solution, Hootsuite Labscommits to exploring a potential partnership with the winning solution’s provider. This partnership will extend Hootsuite Labs’ position as technical and product development mentors, advising the winning solution’s provider on further research, development and testing of their prototype. Upon completion of this research and development, there is potential to have the new product considered for integration within the Hootsuite platform and made available to the disaster response community.

**National Information Sharing Consortium (NISC)**
The NISC will feature the top three winners of the IDCE hackathon in a NISC webinar coordinated and promoted by the NISC at a date to be determined. The top three winning prototypes will also participate and demonstrate their efforts in the webinar to the NISC’s 77 members, including local, state, federal, non-profit, and private sector organizations and agencies. The NISC will also announce and publicize the top three winners of the hackathon on the [NISC website](http://www.nisconsortium.org) and in the NISC’s bi-monthly publication, NISC Notes, which is distributed to more than 2700 stakeholders.

##Panel of Judges
- **Dr. Mahdi Abdelguerfi**: Dr. Abdelguerfi is a professor and chair of the Computer Science Department for the University of New Orleans. His primary research interests are spatio-temporal information systems and information assurance.

- **Mark Cooper**: Mr. Cooper is the Senior Director of Global Emergency Management for Wal-Mart and former Director of Emergency Management for the Louisiana Governor’s Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. In response to Hurricane Gustav, he worked with Governor Jindal to create a Business Emergency Operations Center (BEOC), giving the private sector an easier way to help during crisis. Prior to his role in Louisiana, Mr. Cooper worked for the Los Angeles County Fire Department.

- **Colonel Terry Ebbert**: Colonel Ebbert is the former Director of Homeland Security for the City of New Orleans. In this role he was responsible for the administration and leadership for all Public Safety agencies, which included Police, Fire, Emergency Medical Services, Emergency Preparedness and Criminal Justice organizations.  He served as the “Incident Commander” and coordinated all local, state and federal response to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the largest disaster in the history of the United States.

- **Dr. Robert Griffin**: Dr. Griffin is the Deputy Under Secretary for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Science and Technology Directorate. Prior to this appointment, he served as the Director of the First Responders Group (FRG) and led efforts to strengthen the first responder community’s ability to protect the homeland and respond to disasters. Dr. Griffin came to DHS after a 20-year career in local government as a senior leader and first responder, as the first Director of the Arlington County Office of Emergency Management, the Director of Environmental Services for Arlington County, VA, and the Assistant County Administrator and Chief of Fire and Rescue in Loudon County, VA.

- **Chief Charles Werner**: Chief Werner is a 40 year veteran of the volunteer and career fire rescue service, and presently serves as the fire chief for the City of Charlottesville, VA. He is also a member of the Virginia Statewide Interoperability Executive Committee, the Virginia Fire Service Council, the International Association of Fire Chiefs Technology Council, on the Board of Directors for the National Alliance for Public Safety GIS, Co-Chair of the National Information Sharing Consortium, Co-Chair of the US Department of Homeland Security and White House Incident Management Information Sharing Sub Committee, and the DHS Virtual Social Media Working Group (DHS VSMWG). 

- **Ben Cathers**: Mr. Cathers is the Government and Financial Services Senior Solutions Consultant at Hootsuite. He pitches, advises and manages the initial rollout phase in some of Hootsuite’s largest rollouts, including country wide social media rollouts and compliance rollouts for top-tier insurance companies. Ben is a frequent speaker on social media and government and financial services, having presented at the SIFMA Tech conference, multiple BDI Events, Meetups and at the International Trader's Expo.

- **Alicia Johnson**: Alicia Johnson is the Resilience and Recovery Manager for San Francisco Emergency Management. She has acted as a Public Information Officer, responded to Hurricane Sandy, a few wildfires and the 2008 Democratic National Convention, built crisis communications plans and strengthened San Francisco’s emergency preparedness. Her team’s latest project, SF72.org: Preparedness Redefined, is live now.

- **Devin Weaver**: Mr. Weaver is a motivated software developer for SeeClickFix with pride for quality. Always looking how to make things better. After spending several years as an Emergency Medical Technician helping the local community he now uses his software development skills to make Web and Mobile applications that better the community.
